- Log messages are critical for operations.
Especially in helping troubleshoot issues
that may arise in running applications.
Traditionally, log messages are written to the file
on the file system, and are viewed in that format.
This works great for a traditional Legacy application
as I'm sure you guessed, this isn't the case
with a 12-factor application.
Logs are treated as an event data stream.
Each application writes its logs
to standard out in the form of a stream.
Each application shares the same stream.
The logs can then be aggregated to another system
like ELK for archival and reporting.
The flow of logs is usually chronological,
but because it's a stream from multiple sources,
the time stamp and source tends to be very critical
in log aggregation downstream.
In my experiences, having a standard logging output
across all of your applications,
makes this aggregation easier.
In addition, to the challenge of log aggregation,
some languages produce multi line logs.
This can be another problem when dealing
with log streams and aggregation of these logs.
Usually, logging technologies allow formatting the output
so this can be avoided.
For instance, we format all of our log output
into JSON messages.
So that a single log entry is a JSON message
regardless of the number of lines in that message.
Now, this makes reading it in the terminal much harder,
but it makes reading it in ELK much easier,
and ultimately, that is a benefit to my team.
Moving logging in a Legacy system
to this format can be relatively easy
depending on how you currently do logging.
If you use a logging framework,
often you can simply change the output
to use standard out and you're really done at that point.
You may need to leverage log routing technologies,
depending on your execution environment.
You could also have some work to do
to take that stream and pour it
to your chosen log aggregator.
I want to encourage you not to neglect this factor.
You may not think logs are important now,
but as your system grows, logs become more critical.
Not only are they the best way to know
what's going on in your applications,
they also help you find issues,
including potential security exploits.